# HE Tools

The File `healg.py` contains useful commands to finds HE parameters based on user constraints. Next sections describe the details about them.

## Dependencies
- python >= 3.8

## gen-primes 

The command `hekit gen-primes` generates a list of sorted primes in range [n, m] where n and m are positive integers

### Options

The `gen-primes` command can be executed with the following options.

| Option | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| `-h, help` | Show the help message. |
| `start` | start number. |
| `stop number` | stop number. |

### Running

To run the tool, simply provide start and stop arguments.  For example:
```bash
hekit gen-primes 1 100
```

## healg 

The command `hekit healg` given the plaintext prime `p` and the required number of
p-boxes `d` returns the available algebras.

### Options

The `healg` command can be executed with the following options.

| Option | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| `-h, help` | Show the help message. |
| `-p` | Define plaintext prime. Default value is 2. |
| `-d` | Define number of coefficients in a slot. Default value is 1. |
| `--no-corrected` | Include corrected d orders. |
| `--no-header` | Do not print headers. |

The primes that can be used are only those provided in the `~/.hekit/primes.txt` file. If the file is not created by the user, it will be autogenerated with primes in range [2, 140 000]

### Running

To run the tool, simply provide a single prime or a range where primes may be,
or a combination of the two.  For example, searching for algebras
where the prime is 2, those between 11 and 25 inclusive, and 31.

```bash
hekit algebras -p 2,11-25,31
```

Searching for algebras that give `d` larger than 1 simply pass the flag and
argument in a similar manner to `p`. For example, searching algebras with
the same `p`, but with `d` values of 2 and between 4 to 5, inclusive.

```bash
hekit algebras -p 2,11-25,31 -d 2,4-5
```

For more information run
```bash
hekit algebras -h
```

### Result

The table retuned by the searches have the following column headers shown below
with their meanings,

| Header | Meaning |
| --- | --- |
| `p` | plaintext prime |
| `d` | number of coefficients in a slot (a.k.a. p-boxes) |
| `m` | order of the cyclotomic polynomial |
| `phi(m)` | the Euler totient of m which is the degree of the ciphertext and plaintext polynomial |
| `nslots` | the number of slots in a ciphertext and plaintext polynomial (`phi(m)` / `d`) |

